Disputes
A dispute (also known as a chargeback) occurs when a cardholder questions your payment with their card issuer. The card issuer creates a formal dispute which immediately reverses the payment. The payment amount, along with a separate dispute received fee levied by the card network, is deducted from your account balance.

There is a dispute resolution process through which you can respond and submit evidence to make your case that the payment was valid. If you choose to counter the dispute, a dispute countered fee applies (excluding businesses in Mexico and Japan) in addition to the dispute received fee. If the dispute is found in your favour, the disputed amount and the dispute countered fee is returned to you. If a dispute is upheld, the card issuer’s decision is final and you will not be refunded.

Please note that the full lifecycle of a dispute, from initiation to the final decision from the card issuer, can take as long as 2-3 months to complete.

You can learn more about Stripe's dispute process and disputes on the Connect platform.

Calculate dispute countered fees
A dispute countered fee is incurred when you submit evidence to counter a dispute, with a few exceptions: Enquiries Disputes on non-card payment…
How to handle disputes
Each card network has its own process to handle disputes between cardholders and merchants. Merchants can challenge the dispute, providing evidence to…
Dispute fees FAQ
What are dispute fees? A dispute (also known as a chargeback) occurs when a cardholder questions your payment with their card issuer. The card issuer…
Dispute withdrawals FAQ
Every card network has some provision in its dispute system for the cardholder to retract a dispute after filing it. If you can settle the matter…
FAQ for customers of businesses using Stripe
This page is for customers of businesses that use Stripe. What is Stripe? What should I do if I don't recognise a charge from Stripe? Why is there a…
Reporting a fraudulent transaction from a business using Stripe
Customers who believe they have been the victim of fraudulent transactions from a business that uses Stripe should file a dispute with their bank…
Fraudulent transactions and disputes using Stripe Issuing
If you suspect a charge made through Stripe Issuing to be fraudulent, or if you encountered issues with its delivery or service, you should dispute…
Improvements to Klarna disputes management
It's important for merchants accepting Klarna payments to understand how to manage Klarna disputes. Effective 1 August 2025, merchants who accept…
Monitoring program FAQ
Find answers to questions about the Visa and Mastercard monitoring programs. Common questions What counts as a dispute for the purpose of monitoring…
Introduction to fraud and disputes in Mexico
Stripe is a payment processor and not a digital wallet. When choosing a payment processor, you're responsible for fraud prevention, for the charges…