Refunds
Stripe offers you the ability to refund a customer charge, be it in full or a partial amount of the original charge.

Learn how to issue a refund from your Stripe Dashboard, how long refunds can take to reach your customers, what to do if a refund is not received as expected, and more below. You can also find more information in the Stripe Docs.

Canceling a refund
After you send a customer a refund, you have a very short window to cancel it from the Dashboard. If Stripe needed to collect customer banking…
Fix the negative balance on your account
A negative balance occurs when the cost of refunds, disputes and fees exceeds the available balance. Your business won't be able to send refunds to…
Understanding fees for refunded payments
Depending on your pricing and fee schedule, issuing a refund may incur fees. Stripe's processing fees from the original transaction aren't returned…
Where is my customer's refund?
Refunds can take 5 – 10 business days to show up in a customer's account. Find the refund status of a specific transaction on the Transaction page or…
How to refund a customer
You can refund non-disputed payments to customers directly from the Payments overview page in the Dashboard or using the Stripe API. The default…
Understanding refund statuses
Refunds move through multiple statuses before successfully reconciling to the customer's balance. You might need to take action for certain types of…
How to trace a refund using reference numbers
Trace a refund with the reference number provided on the Stripe Dashboard under Payment Details > Timeline. It could be an Acquirer Reference Number…
Refund requests for a purchase made through a business using Stripe
This page contains information intended for customers of businesses that use Stripe. If your business uses Stripe and you'd like to find out more…
Refund privacy practices for customers of businesses using Stripe
This page is for customers of businesses that use Stripe for payment processing. It covers frequently asked questions about charge refunds and privacy…
FAQ for customers of businesses using Stripe
This page is for customers of businesses that use Stripe. What is Stripe? What should I do if I don't recognise a charge from Stripe? Why is there a…